Hello everyone. In this video, I want to
create a nice forest environment like
this. Okay, we have some fage
rocks forest with a PCG system. Okay,
let's
go. Okay, first thing first, open the
editor, go to games, select third person
as template, rename the
project PCG landscape, and hit create.
First thing first, go to
file. Create new level. Choose a basic
level. Hit create. After that, press
delete to delete the old landscape and
go to landscape
mode. Enable edit layers. Make draw. Hit
create. After that, we have to save our
first level. Go to file, save all. We
have to go to the content. and
displays LS LV
level. Hit save. Return right here to
the selection
mode. After that, go to the content
drawer. Press add. Go to
FAB. Let's download some materials. Uh
let's first of all search for black
elder.
Oropeium black
elder add to my project this
one. Choose the previous final
version. My version is 5.6. The previous
final version is 5.5. Add to my
project. The downloading is beginning.
I want to pause video now. Once
downloading is finished, I will resume
the
video. And downloading is finished.
Let's download some
footage source full
grass. More filter. Set price to
free. Okay, let's choose this one. Wild
grass. Add to my project.
This one add to my
project. This one add to my
project. I think it's good. It's fine
right
now. Now, let's close this one.
Let's
begin. First of all, we have to go here
and to the PCG. To add the PCG, we have
first of all, I have to go here to the
plugin. Search for
PCG. Enable this one. PCG framework.
Press the
contra. Restart the engine.
Save
selected by let's close
this. Turn here. Open my landscape
level. After that we have to go here to
the PCG graph and create empty
graph. Rename it landscape
PC. Drag the graph right
here. and enter here. Double click to
the graph. Once it's
opened, let's get data from the
landscape. Go down
here. Search for landscape. Get
landscape data. First of all, we have to
begin with
trees. Search for
surface.
Simpler. After that we have to transform
points bounds
modifier and let's spawn static mesh
static mesh
spawner. We use this node to add
them my
trees. For example, we have three
entries for now. Let's search for for
and let's adjust the parameter in my
surface. Simple. Press this
one and press debug. Let's see what's
happening. This is points is the
position of the trees on the
graph. Let's measure the leness
five. That's good. Three solid point 0
[Music]
one in this graph. I think the position
of the threes is good. Let's remove the
looseness here.
three and
now and let's move here to the transport
points. Let's make my me rotation to 0
to
360° for the scaling. Let's set 0.8
eight the
two I think it's fine for the
trees and now for the bind bounce
modifier this scaling mean scale and max
scale for now let's make it like this
one is good for now return here to
transform point let's go here and debug
this node
Disable this debug
node. Okay, this is rotation of the
trail. Okay, here and transform going to
set the main
offset minus five. Max offset let's set
10. And let's see what's
happening right here. Let's go here to
my transform
points. I think it's good.
Let's select this one and add my four
entries. Go here and search for
static. We have in this descriptor we
have our four static mesh on their
place. Now let's go to the content
drawer black elder.
Go to filter here and enable this static
mesh. Once it's enabled, I can enable
and
disable. Okay, let's choose
force. Select
it and drag it in this place. First
one. Let's use second
one. Okay, this one is good.
Let's see for fourth
one. I think four entries is good. And
let's
see
now to make it
good. Press R and scale our PCG graph.
And let's see
here. Set the speed of the camera like
this. Now let's go
here. Click this one. Press C.
Trees BCG.
First one is done. Let's move to the
flesh. Before moving to the fold, we
have to save
all. And let's go
here. Press the first one. Press Ctrl
and A. Select all of this and enable
Nite. Nite is enabled by default. It's
good. And now disable this one. Let's
move to the flesh. Let's go here to the
[Music]
Fab Grass musication. Let's go here.
Select
Fab. All of those are
good. Let's go right here. Now, select
the
landscape and go to the
content. We have not start content. We
have to add start the
content to choose some materials. Add
future content. Go to content right
here. Should circle once it's selected.
Add to my
project. Close
this. Close this
one. Okay. Select the landscape and go
down. Landscape material. We have to add
material for our landscape.
Okay. Then choose
material for our forest. suit this metal
rust. Select this one and press this
button. Okay, let's go
[Music]
down and go right here to the basic add
the place start in this
place. We have uh to disable debugging
for these points.
Let's go here to the
content and go here to the
PCG and let's
see our
work.
Okay, I
think this kind of forest is good. Let's
add some folish for this forest right
now. Go here. Open the
PCG. Make this one in this place. This
inputs. And let's go here. Copy this
one. Ctrl C. Ctrl +
V. Search for surface simpler. The same
thing transform
points. Static M
spawner. Search for static.
spawner. Make it like
this. Okay, let's begin with begin with
the surface simpler. Uh points for squid
meter is set to one. This one. Okay,
point extent set five for all axis.
For the looseness, let's set it to
three. Now point is like this. Let's set
this one
300° rotation.
Set this one from minus
five to five for the X and Y
axis for the
rotation. And now let's go here to
static mesh spawner. Uh before let's go
here to the fab. Select this one. We
have how many meshes? Let's choose
five. and go here. Search for
static. Let's add it one by
one. First
one. Second
one. Third one.
fourth
one and five fifth five
one.
Okay.
Okay. Let's save
all and go here. Select the first one.
Press Ctrl
A. Let's see. Enable the night for all
of those machines.
Let's take some time preparing
heaters and let's
see. Okay, I think it's a good forest
right now.
Okay, it's cool. Let's add some
rocks. Let's go here. Disable this one.
Go to the
fab and search for rocks.
Rock
is more
filter. Set price to
free. Okay, let's add this granite
rockus.
Let's check this uh reference only only
add to
project after add to the downloading and
adding the project let's choose small
rocks rocks rocks granite
rocks I have one rock in this library
let's say this one uh you can download
this one stand boulder
Add to
project. You can add many as possible
rockets for me. Add to those two. Close
this. Return to the
lspcg. Before you continue, we have to
select all of those. Press C command.
Set it for le.
Now
let's not copy all of those. Ctrl C from
this. Search for surface
simpler. And let's add
here what we have to do. We have
transform points.
transform a point. After transforming
points, we have to add the bounds
modifier. Bounds
modifier. And let's add a self pruning
knot. Self pruning knot.
We can add this one for rocks only. Self
prone knock. This one pruning types is
from large to small or all equal or
remove duplicates rocks. Let's set it to
large to small. After doing this, let's
add static misspawner.
I want to add my two types of
rocks by going in this place. M entries
one,
two. You can add many rocks as possible.
Static static
mesh. Go here to the fab mega scans 3D.
Choose this
one. First entry is this is small rock.
And the second entry, this
one. And let's
see. Okay, this is our
rockus. Yeah.
Now think we have to do is differentiate
between them and
the polish. Okay. To do that we have to
go here and add not color
difference. This is
rockus and after self pruning there's
more for
deference. I break this
line. Select this line.
Double click. Press delay to break
it. Let's def duplicate this rockus.
This is source. Differentiate from the
fall. Press this node from the output.
And let's see it works or
not. Okay, the problem is here.
Let's differentiate rock locus from the
forest. And let's add this one. Ctrl C
and Ctrl +
V.
Uh it's not works because we have to go
here. Press this
one
and go to the setting. Density function
is minimum. Change this one to
binary. It's not works. We have to
disable it and enable it to
works. And let's
see where is rocks.
We have some differentiation between
them. Where is my rockus?
Okay, this is the rock
is now. Let's go
here. We have to do the same thing for
the second one.
selected. Go here to
binary and let's
enable. Add this one to the
source. Break this
line. Connect it to the static mesh.
You have to differentiate this one
from the
trees. Okay. Fine. It's have a
differentiation.
Okay, save
all. Thank you guys for watching. This
is all for
our
PCG forest. It looks very fine. We have
some materials,
trees, rocks, differentiation between
materials and other things. Subscribe to
the
channel for more tutorials like this. We
have page you can donate for more help
me a lot.